content/en/docs/0.9/about/credits.md, before:

---
title: Credits
description: Hinode is fully open source and uses several open-source frameworks and libraries.
date: 2023-01-14
group: about
aliases:
  - "/docs/0.9/about/credits/"
  - "/docs/0.9/about/"
  - "/docs/about/"
  - "/about/"
layout: docs
---

## Team

Hinode is maintained by [Mark Dumay]({{< param "links.repository_owner" >}}) and several contributors as an open-source repository on GitHub. You are more than welcome to contribute. Get involved in the development by [opening an issue]({{< param "links.issue_tracker" >}}) or submitting a pull request. Read our [contributing guidelines]({{< ref "contribute" >}}) for information on how we develop.

## Core components

Hinode is based on the following core components:

- [Hugo]({{< param "links.hugo" >}}) is a fast and modern static site generator written in Go. It is a so-called static site generator, meaning that the website is created when you update its content. This is a different approach to systems that dynamically build a page upon request.
- [Bootstrap]({{< param "links.bootstrap" >}}) is a popular, open-source web development framework. Using a mobile-first approach, it provides several functions and components to simplify the creation of responsive websites.
- [npm]({{< param "links.npm" >}}) is a software registry that enables the sharing and reuse of both open-source and private software packages. By taking advantage of its version management, software dependencies are easily tracked and updated.
- [FlexSearch]({{< param "links.flexsearch" >}}) is a flexible search library to enable full text search across your site.

## Themes

Hinode is inspired by the following themes:

- [Blist]({{< param "links.blist" >}}) is a clean and fast blog theme for your Hugo site using Tailwind CSS.
- [Doks]({{< param "links.doks" >}}) is a Hugo theme for building secure, fast, and SEO-ready documentation websites, which you can easily update and customize.

Commit message:

Add Font Awesome to credits

content/en/docs/0.9/about/credits.md, after:

---
title: Credits
description: Hinode is fully open source and uses several open-source frameworks and libraries.
date: 2023-01-14
group: about
aliases:
  - "/docs/0.9/about/credits/"
  - "/docs/0.9/about/"
  - "/docs/about/"
  - "/about/"
layout: docs
---

## Team

Hinode is maintained by [Mark Dumay]({{< param "links.repository_owner" >}}) and several contributors as an open-source repository on GitHub. You are more than welcome to contribute. Get involved in the development by [opening an issue]({{< param "links.issue_tracker" >}}) or submitting a pull request. Read our [contributing guidelines]({{< ref "contribute" >}}) for information on how we develop.

## Core components

Hinode is based on the following core components:

- [Hugo]({{< param "links.hugo" >}}) is a fast and modern static site generator written in Go. It is a so-called static site generator, meaning that the website is created when you update its content. This is a different approach to systems that dynamically build a page upon request.
- [Bootstrap]({{< param "links.bootstrap" >}}) is a popular, open-source web development framework. Using a mobile-first approach, it provides several functions and components to simplify the creation of responsive websites.
- [npm]({{< param "links.npm" >}}) is a software registry that enables the sharing and reuse of both open-source and private software packages. By taking advantage of its version management, software dependencies are easily tracked and updated.
- [FlexSearch]({{< param "links.flexsearch" >}}) is a flexible search library to enable full text search across your site.
- [Font Awesome]({{< param "links.fontawesome" >}}) is an icon library and toolkit that is used on over 200 million sites. It contains both free and paid plans.

## Themes

Hinode is inspired by the following themes:

- [Blist]({{< param "links.blist" >}}) is a clean and fast blog theme for your Hugo site using Tailwind CSS.
- [Doks]({{< param "links.doks" >}}) is a Hugo theme for building secure, fast, and SEO-ready documentation websites, which you can easily update and customize.
