---
title: Color modes
description: Add light mode and dark mode support to your website.
date: 2023-02-18
layout: docs
---

## Color modes

Hinode supports color modes, or themes, as introduced by Bootstrap `v5.3.0`. By default, the site is rendered in light mode. If dark mode is enabled, a toggler is added to the main navigation. The toggler enables switching between modes, or can be set to `auto`. In the latter mode, the site uses the mode as preferred by the device. Hinode uses data attributes to toggle the site's color mode. Visit the [Bootstrap documentation]({{< param "links.bs_color_sass" >}}) for more information. You can enable of disable the support for dark mode in the [extended layout configuration]({{< relref "layout#extended-configuration" >}}).

{{< alert >}}
    The color mode support by Bootstrap is still in an alpha release. You might encounter rendering issues or unexpected behavior.
{{< /alert >}}

## Display property

Hinode defines two classes to simplify the development of color-mode aware websites. Simply add `d-none-dark` as class attribute to block the display of an element in dark mode. Vice versa, use `d-none-light` to block the content from rendering in light mode. The following example illustrates this behavior. Toggle the color mode of the current website to test the behavior.

{{< example >}}
<div class="d-none-dark">I'm visible in <mark>light mode</mark> only</div>
<div class="d-none-light">I'm visible in <mark>dark mode</mark> only</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Sass

The helper `color-mode` is available to simplify the development of color-mode aware stylesheets. The following example defines a default background gradient for the colors white and the primary [theme color]({{< relref "colors" >}}). If `$enable-dark-mode` is enabled (see [extended layout configuration]({{< relref "layout#extended-configuration" >}})), the helper `color-mode` inserts an alternative gradient that is applicable to dark mode.

```scss
.gradient-featured {
    background: $white;
    background: linear-gradient(135deg, $white 0%, tint-color($primary, 80%) 100%);
}

@if $enable-dark-mode {
    @include color-mode(dark) {
        .gradient-featured {
            background: $gray-900;
            background: linear-gradient(135deg, $gray-900 0%, shade-color($primary, 60%) 100%);
        }
    }
}
```

The final <abbr title="Cascading Stylesheet">CSS</abbr> generated by Hinode looks like this:

```css
.gradient-featured {
    background: #fff;
    background: linear-gradient(135deg, #fff 0%, #f6d7cc 100%);
}

[data-bs-theme="dark"] .gradient-featured {
    background: #212529;
    background: linear-gradient(135deg, #212529 0%, #551700 100%);
}
```
