content/en/guides/modules/index.md, before:

---
author: Mark Dumay
title: Developing Hugo modules
date: 2023-07-22
description: Guide on how to develop Hugo modules compatible with Hinode.
tags: ["guide", "module", "katex"]
weight: 25
thumbnail: 
    url: img/puzzle.jpg
    author: Ryoji Iwata
    authorURL: https://unsplash.com/@ryoji__iwata
    origin: Unsplash
    originURL: https://unsplash.com/photos/5siQcvSxCP8
modules: ["katex"]

---

## Introduction

> [!NOTE]
> This guide is primarily aimed at explaining how to develop a Hinode-compatible module. The KaTeX library used in this guide is also available as {{< link repository_mod_katex >}}managed module on GitHub{{< /link >}}. Hugo v0.132.0 introduced (experimental) support for [server-side rendering of KaTeX expressions](https://gohugo.io/functions/transform/tomath/), which might be a better alternative when looking for KaTeX support on your site.

{{< link hugo_modules >}}Hugo modules{{< /link >}} provide a flexible and extensible modular framework. Hinode builds upon this framework by introducing core modules and optional modules to further streamline the build process and to minimize the final site assets. This guide helps to get you started with developing your own Hugo modules. It also explains how to take advantage of Hinode's build pipelines to optimize the generated stylesheet and script assets. As a case example, we will set up a module that wraps the functionality of {{< link katex >}}KaTeX{{< /link >}} - a popular math typesetting library. Be sure to comply with [Hinode's prerequisites]({{% relref "introduction#prerequisites" %}}) first - this guide requires npm. We will also use Visual Studio Code (VSCode) for convenience - {{< link vscode_download >}}download your copy from the official website{{< /link >}}.

{{< example lang="markdown" >}}
This is an inline $-b \pm \sqrt{b^2 - 4ac} \over 2a$ formula

This is not an inline formula:

$$x = a_0 + \frac{1}{a_1 + \frac{1}{a_2 + \frac{1}{a_3 + a_4}}}$$  
$$\forall x \in X, \quad \exists y \leq \epsilon$$
{{< /example >}}

## Step 1 - Deciding upon the sourcing strategy

In this guide, we will develop a module to wrap the functionality of the {{< link katex >}}KaTeX{{< /link >}} library. By wrapping this existing library, our Hugo module abstracts away from the technical details and provides intuitive access from within the Hugo ecosystem. Hugo modules uses Go modules under the hood to download the latest available release on GitHub, or the most recent HEAD of the default branch otherwise.

Hugo modules can include files for each of the following folders: `archetypes`, `assets`, `content`, `data`, `i18n`, `layouts`, and `static`. Hugo uses two different algorithms to merge the filesystems, depending on the file type:

- For `i18n` and `data` files, Hugo merges deeply using the translation ID and data key inside the files.
- For `assets`, `content`, `static`, `layouts` (templates), and `archetypes` files, these are merged on file level. So the left-most file will be chosen.

> [!NOTE]
> You can choose to either fully integrate Hugo modules or to include them on a page-by-page basis. In this guide, we will configure KaTeX as an optional module, assuming we will only need KaTeX on a few pages. See [configuring modules]({{% relref "/docs/configuration/modules#configuring-modules" %}}) for more details.

Our module will wrap the functionality of KaTeX as a module for Hinode. The installation instructions of KaTeX tell us what files are needed to {{< link katex_self_hosted >}}host KaTeX ourselves{{< /link >}}. We will need the file `katex.js`, `katex.css`, and the `fonts` directory. We could also use minified versions, however, Hinode will take care of transpiling, bundling, and minifying the assets later on. For our purposes, we are better suited with the properly formatted files to simplify debugging. We also want to include the {{< link katex_autorender >}}auto-render extension{{< /link >}}. We will create a separate script with the instructions to invoke the function `renderMathInElement` later on.

When we take a look at the {{< link katex_github >}}source code repository of KaTeX on GitHub{{< /link >}}, we can observe that not all required files are maintained within the repository. This is quite common, as many libraries choose to publish their release assets through a package manager (such as {{< link npm >}}npm{{< /link >}}) or {{< abbr CDN >}} instead. The GitHub releases do adhere to a consistent semantic versioning pattern of `vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`. Both requirements are needed for Hugo modules to work out-of-the-box - that is, downloading the GitHub release directly.

Even if the first requirement has not been met, we can still use the Hugo module system. We will use {{< link npm >}}npm{{< /link >}} to do some of the heavy-lifting for us. Our module will use npm and several scripts to expose the required files and to ensure these file are kept up-to-date. Now that we have decided on our sourcing strategy, we can head over to the next step to start working on our module.

## Step 2 - Initializing the module template

Hinode maintains a [module template](https://github.com/gethinode/mod-template) to quickly get you started with developing your own modules. Navigate to the repository on GitHub and click on the button `Use this template`. Next, fill in the repository settings such as the name and description, and click on the button `Create repository`. When GitHub has initialized the repository, click on the `<> Code` button and copy the remote git URL (`https`).

{{< carousel class="col-sm-12 col-lg-8 mx-auto" >}}
  {{< img src="img/module-template-step01.png" caption="Step 1. Use the module template" >}}
  {{< img src="img/module-template-step02.png" caption="Step 2. Fill in the repository settings" >}}
  {{< img src="img/module-template-step03.png" caption="Step 3. Copy the remote git URL" >}}
{{< /carousel >}}

Now head over to the terminal of your local machine and initialize a local copy of the GitHub repository (replacing `{OWNER}` and `{REPOSITORY}`, or simply pasting the git URL your had copied earlier). This guide will use `https://github.com/markdumay/mod-katex` throughout the rest of the document.

{{< command >}}
git clone https://github.com/{OWNER}/{REPOSITORY}.git && cd {REPOSITORY}
{{< /command >}}

Open the local repository in VSCode and create a `develop` branch first. Now search for the keyword `gethinode/mod-template` and replace it with `markdumay/mod-katex`, except for the file `package-lock.json` - that gets updated automatically. Likewise, replace the remaining `mod-template` keywords with `mod-katex`. Feel free to adjust the files `package.json` and `README.md` as needed, such as updating the package description. Head over to source control, provide a commit message, and publish the `develop` branch to GitHub.

## Step 3 - Exposing the KaTeX distribution files

We will now add KaTeX as npm package to our local repository. Run the following command from your terminal to add KaTeX as development dependency.

> [!NOTE]
> You can install npm packages as either regular packages or development dependency. We do not need the KaTeX library at run-time, as Hugo compiles a static site. Additionally, we will redistribute the required KaTeX files as part of our site deployment. We can therefore install the KaTeX package as development dependency, listed under `devDependencies` in `package.json`.

{{< command >}}
npm install -D katex
{{< /command >}}

Switch back to VSCode and observe a new directory `node_modules` has been created in the repository root. The directory contains a folder `katex`, in which the subfolder `dist` contains our required files.

We will now create a `postinstall` script to copy the required files to our main repository (by default, `node_modules` are excluded from our git repository -  see `.gitignore` in the repository root). The below extract of `package.json` shows the placeholder script predefined by the module template.

```json
  [...]
  "scripts": {
    [...]
    "postinstall": "echo TODO: add postinstall instructions",
    [...]
  },
  [...]
```

Modify the `postinstall` script to copy the required files to a local `dist` directory:

```json
  [...]
  "scripts": {
    [...]
    "postinstall": "npm run -s copy:css && npm run -s copy:js && npm run -s copy:contrib && npm run -s copy:fonts",
    "copy:css": "cpy node_modules/katex/dist/katex.css dist --rename=katex.scss --flat",
    "copy:js": "cpy node_modules/katex/dist/katex.js dist --flat",
    "copy:contrib": "cpy \"node_modules/katex/dist/contrib/*.js\" \"!node_modules/katex/dist/contrib/*.min.js\"  dist/contrib --flat",
    "copy:fonts": "cpy node_modules/katex/dist/fonts/** dist/fonts --flat",
    [...]
  },
  [...]
```

The line postinstall is split into separate lines for each copy command to improve readability (you could also use {{< link npm_run_all >}}npm-run-all{{< /link >}} to simplify the command even further). Each copy statement uses {{< link npm_cpy >}}cpy{{< /link >}}, a cross-platform copy command. The `--flat` argument instructs `cpy` to flatten the files in the destination directory `dist`. The negation pattern starting with `!` tells `cpy-cli` to skip files that end with `.min.js`.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> We deliberately rename the `katex.css` file to a `katex.scss` file. The default `libsass` library, part of the [styles processing pipeline]({{% relref "styles" %}}), has difficulty processing the file otherwise.

Run `npm install` from the command line to invoke the `postinstall` script automatically. You should now have a folder `dist` in your repository root with the correct files. This npm script works well in a {{< abbr "CI/CD" >}} pipeline too, which prepares us for automation of the dependency upgrades later on in this guide.

{{< command >}}
npm install
(out)> @markdumay/mod-katex@0.0.0 postinstall
(out)> npm run -s copy:css && npm run -s copy:js && npm run -s copy:fonts
{{< /command >}}

We will now expose the various files copied to our local `dist` folder using [Hugo mounts]({{% relref "/docs/advanced-settings/overview#mounted-folders" %}}). The below configuration adheres to Hinode's [conventions for the naming and paths of the exposed files]({{% relref "module-development#conventions" %}}). Also observe that we explicitly add the existing folders `layouts`, `assets`, and `static` as mount point. This is to ensure other mounts are merged with any existing directories, instead of these mounts replacing the local folders. Add this configuration to the `config.toml` file in your repository root. Make sure to keep the existing `workspace = "mod-katex.work"` line from the template. Pay attention to also rename the `mod-template.work` file to `mod-katex.work` in the exampleSite directory.

```toml
[module]
  [module.hugoVersion]
    extended = true
    min = "0.110.0"
    max = ""
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = "dist/katex.js"
    target = "assets/js/modules/katex/katex.js"
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = "dist/contrib/auto-render.js"
    target = "assets/js/modules/katex/katex-autorender.js"
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = "dist"
    target = "assets/scss"
    includeFiles = "katex.scss"
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = "dist/fonts"
    target = "static/fonts"
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = 'layouts'
    target = 'layouts'
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = 'assets'
    target = 'assets'
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = 'static'
    target = 'static'
```

As a final step we will include a basic script to initialize KaTeX when the page loads. An example script is available on the {{< link katex_load >}}KaTeX site{{< /link >}}. Create a file `assets/js/modules/katex/katex-autoload.js` and copy-paste the following script (copied from the KaTeX site for convenience). When done, push the latest changes to your remote git repository.

{{< file path="./_vendor/github.com/gethinode/mod-katex/assets/js/modules/katex/katex-autoload.js" full="false" >}}

## Step 4 - Testing the KaTeX markup

The module template provides a simple website for local testing. Open the file `exampleSite/hugo.toml` and update the configuration:

```toml
[module]
  replacements = 'github.com/markdumay/mod-katex -> ../..'
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = "static"
    target = "static"
  [[module.imports]]
    path = "github.com/markdumay/mod-katex"
  [[module.imports.mounts]]
    source = "dist/katex.scss"
    target = "static/katex.css"
  [[module.imports.mounts]]
    source = "dist/fonts"
    target = "static/fonts"
  [[module.imports.mounts]]
    source = "dist/katex.js"
    target = "static/js/katex.js"
  [[module.imports.mounts]]
    source = "dist/contrib/auto-render.js"
    target = "static/js/auto-render.js"
  [[module.imports.mounts]]
    source = "assets/js/modules/katex/katex-autoload.js"
    target = "static/js/katex-autoload.js"
```

The `replacements` instruction tells Hugo to source the `mod-katex` module from the parent folder instead of the remote repository. This is of great help for local development and testing, as we would otherwise need to synchronize our repositories, submit a PR, and pull the latest version for each revision. The next line instructs our example site to use the `mod-katex` module (now sourced locally) and to adjust the mount points of the `.css` file and `.js` files. In this simple site for testing, we have no need for complex processing or bundling of assets, so we can use static imports instead.

We will now run the `mod:update` script to install the Hugo module(s) and to check for any updates. The `package.json` contains several scripts to help us:

```json
  [...]
  "scripts": {
    [...]
    "mod:update": "hugo mod get -u ./... && npm run -s mod:vendor && npm run -s mod:tidy",
    "mod:vendor": "rimraf _vendor && hugo mod vendor",
    "mod:tidy": "hugo mod tidy && hugo mod tidy -s exampleSite",
    [...]
  },
  [...]
```

- **`hugo mod get -u ./...`**

  Checks for any Hugo module updates recursively (including subfolders such as `exampleSite`)

- **`rimraf _vendor && hugo mod vendor`**

  Stores the module assets in a local vendor directory instead of the system cache. This is required if a module uses other modules itself (so-called transitive dependencies) and ensures our example site has access to them. Another reason to vendor your modules is to aid additional tools, such as the {{< link npm_whitelister >}}Purgecss Whitelister{{< /link >}}. External tools do not have access to Hugo mounts, however, might require access to module files. Vendoring your modules ensures all module data is available on a local, known path.
  
  The `_vendor` directory is deleted to prevent an error when the module does **not** have transitive dependencies. You could remove the vendor approach in this case, however, the current scripts defined by the module template cover both scenarios.

- **`hugo mod tidy && hugo mod tidy -s exampleSite`**

  Do some housekeeping of the `go.mod` and `go.sum` files in both the main repository and `exampleSite` folder. The command `hugo mod tidy` does not have a recursive option, so instead we invoke it the second time with the `-s` argument to point it at the correct subfolder.

Run the command `npm run mod:update` to update the modules recursively.

{{< command >}}
npm run mod:update
(out)
(out)> @markdumay/mod-katex@0.0.0 mod:update
(out)> hugo mod get -u ./... && npm run -s mod:vendor && npm run -s mod:tidy
(out)
(out)Update module in [...]/mod-katex/exampleSite
(out)Update module in [...]/mod-katex
{{< /command >}}

We will now adjust the file `baseof.html` in `exampleSite/layouts/_default` to include our static stylesheet and script on each page by default. Modify lines 7 and 13-15 as follows:

```html {linenos=table,hl_lines=[7,"13-15"]}
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, minimum-scale=1.0, initial-scale=1.0">
  <title>{{ with .Title }}{{ printf "%s | " . }}{{ end }}{{ site.Title }}</title>
  <link rel=stylesheet href="/katex.css">
</head>
<body>
  {{ block "main" . }}

  {{ end }}
<script src="/js/katex.js"></script>
<script src="/js/katex-autoload.js"></script>
<script src="/js/auto-render.js"></script>
</body>
</html>
```

Finally, add some examples to the file `exampleSite/content/_index.md`:

```md
This is an inline $-b \pm \sqrt{b^2 - 4ac} \over 2a$ formula

This is not an inline formula:

$$x = a_0 + \frac{1}{a_1 + \frac{1}{a_2 + \frac{1}{a_3 + a_4}}}$$  
$$\forall x \in X, \quad \exists y \leq \epsilon$$
```

Start a local server for the example site with the following command. Navigate to the address in your local browser and verify the page loads correctly.

{{< command >}}
npm run start
(out)
(out)> @markdumay/mod-katex@0.0.0 prestart
(out)> npm run clean && npm run mod:vendor
(out)
(out)> @markdumay/mod-katex@0.0.0 clean
(out)> rimraf exampleSite/public exampleSite/resources
(out)
(out)> @markdumay/mod-katex@0.0.0 mod:vendor
(out)> rimraf _vendor && hugo mod vendor
(out)
(out)> @markdumay/mod-katex@0.0.0 start
(out)> hugo server -s exampleSite --bind=0.0.0.0 --disableFastRender --printI18nWarnings
(out)
(out)Start building sites ...
(out)Environment: "development"
(out)Serving pages from memory
(out)Web Server is available at http://localhost:1313/ (bind address 0.0.0.0)
(out)Press Ctrl+C to stop
{{< /command >}}

## Conclusion

We have now created a new module that wraps the functionality of KaTeX. You can now easily include the module as core module or optional module in your Hinode site. Visit the [modules]({{% relref "docs/configuration/modules" %}}) section for more instructions. As a next step, you could consider to automate the dependency tracking, merging, and publication of new releases for your module. Your module already inherited several workflows from the module template. Visit the [module development]({{% relref "module-development" %}}) section for more information.

Commit message:

feat: updated toml config and instruction using workspace rather than replacements

content/en/guides/modules/index.md, after:

---
author: Mark Dumay
title: Developing Hugo modules
date: 2023-07-22
description: Guide on how to develop Hugo modules compatible with Hinode.
tags: ["guide", "module", "katex"]
weight: 25
thumbnail: 
    url: img/puzzle.jpg
    author: Ryoji Iwata
    authorURL: https://unsplash.com/@ryoji__iwata
    origin: Unsplash
    originURL: https://unsplash.com/photos/5siQcvSxCP8
modules: ["katex"]

---

## Introduction

> [!NOTE]
> This guide is primarily aimed at explaining how to develop a Hinode-compatible module. The KaTeX library used in this guide is also available as {{< link repository_mod_katex >}}managed module on GitHub{{< /link >}}. Hugo v0.132.0 introduced (experimental) support for [server-side rendering of KaTeX expressions](https://gohugo.io/functions/transform/tomath/), which might be a better alternative when looking for KaTeX support on your site.

{{< link hugo_modules >}}Hugo modules{{< /link >}} provide a flexible and extensible modular framework. Hinode builds upon this framework by introducing core modules and optional modules to further streamline the build process and to minimize the final site assets. This guide helps to get you started with developing your own Hugo modules. It also explains how to take advantage of Hinode's build pipelines to optimize the generated stylesheet and script assets. As a case example, we will set up a module that wraps the functionality of {{< link katex >}}KaTeX{{< /link >}} - a popular math typesetting library. Be sure to comply with [Hinode's prerequisites]({{% relref "introduction#prerequisites" %}}) first - this guide requires npm. We will also use Visual Studio Code (VSCode) for convenience - {{< link vscode_download >}}download your copy from the official website{{< /link >}}.

{{< example lang="markdown" >}}
This is an inline $-b \pm \sqrt{b^2 - 4ac} \over 2a$ formula

This is not an inline formula:

$$x = a_0 + \frac{1}{a_1 + \frac{1}{a_2 + \frac{1}{a_3 + a_4}}}$$  
$$\forall x \in X, \quad \exists y \leq \epsilon$$
{{< /example >}}

## Step 1 - Deciding upon the sourcing strategy

In this guide, we will develop a module to wrap the functionality of the {{< link katex >}}KaTeX{{< /link >}} library. By wrapping this existing library, our Hugo module abstracts away from the technical details and provides intuitive access from within the Hugo ecosystem. Hugo modules uses Go modules under the hood to download the latest available release on GitHub, or the most recent HEAD of the default branch otherwise.

Hugo modules can include files for each of the following folders: `archetypes`, `assets`, `content`, `data`, `i18n`, `layouts`, and `static`. Hugo uses two different algorithms to merge the filesystems, depending on the file type:

- For `i18n` and `data` files, Hugo merges deeply using the translation ID and data key inside the files.
- For `assets`, `content`, `static`, `layouts` (templates), and `archetypes` files, these are merged on file level. So the left-most file will be chosen.

> [!NOTE]
> You can choose to either fully integrate Hugo modules or to include them on a page-by-page basis. In this guide, we will configure KaTeX as an optional module, assuming we will only need KaTeX on a few pages. See [configuring modules]({{% relref "/docs/configuration/modules#configuring-modules" %}}) for more details.

Our module will wrap the functionality of KaTeX as a module for Hinode. The installation instructions of KaTeX tell us what files are needed to {{< link katex_self_hosted >}}host KaTeX ourselves{{< /link >}}. We will need the file `katex.js`, `katex.css`, and the `fonts` directory. We could also use minified versions, however, Hinode will take care of transpiling, bundling, and minifying the assets later on. For our purposes, we are better suited with the properly formatted files to simplify debugging. We also want to include the {{< link katex_autorender >}}auto-render extension{{< /link >}}. We will create a separate script with the instructions to invoke the function `renderMathInElement` later on.

When we take a look at the {{< link katex_github >}}source code repository of KaTeX on GitHub{{< /link >}}, we can observe that not all required files are maintained within the repository. This is quite common, as many libraries choose to publish their release assets through a package manager (such as {{< link npm >}}npm{{< /link >}}) or {{< abbr CDN >}} instead. The GitHub releases do adhere to a consistent semantic versioning pattern of `vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`. Both requirements are needed for Hugo modules to work out-of-the-box - that is, downloading the GitHub release directly.

Even if the first requirement has not been met, we can still use the Hugo module system. We will use {{< link npm >}}npm{{< /link >}} to do some of the heavy-lifting for us. Our module will use npm and several scripts to expose the required files and to ensure these file are kept up-to-date. Now that we have decided on our sourcing strategy, we can head over to the next step to start working on our module.

## Step 2 - Initializing the module template

Hinode maintains a [module template](https://github.com/gethinode/mod-template) to quickly get you started with developing your own modules. Navigate to the repository on GitHub and click on the button `Use this template`. Next, fill in the repository settings such as the name and description, and click on the button `Create repository`. When GitHub has initialized the repository, click on the `<> Code` button and copy the remote git URL (`https`).

{{< carousel class="col-sm-12 col-lg-8 mx-auto" >}}
  {{< img src="img/module-template-step01.png" caption="Step 1. Use the module template" >}}
  {{< img src="img/module-template-step02.png" caption="Step 2. Fill in the repository settings" >}}
  {{< img src="img/module-template-step03.png" caption="Step 3. Copy the remote git URL" >}}
{{< /carousel >}}

Now head over to the terminal of your local machine and initialize a local copy of the GitHub repository (replacing `{OWNER}` and `{REPOSITORY}`, or simply pasting the git URL your had copied earlier). This guide will use `https://github.com/markdumay/mod-katex` throughout the rest of the document.

{{< command >}}
git clone https://github.com/{OWNER}/{REPOSITORY}.git && cd {REPOSITORY}
{{< /command >}}

Open the local repository in VSCode and create a `develop` branch first. Now search for the keyword `gethinode/mod-template` and replace it with `markdumay/mod-katex`, except for the file `package-lock.json` - that gets updated automatically. Likewise, replace the remaining `mod-template` keywords with `mod-katex`. Feel free to adjust the files `package.json` and `README.md` as needed, such as updating the package description. Head over to source control, provide a commit message, and publish the `develop` branch to GitHub.

## Step 3 - Exposing the KaTeX distribution files

We will now add KaTeX as npm package to our local repository. Run the following command from your terminal to add KaTeX as development dependency.

> [!NOTE]
> You can install npm packages as either regular packages or development dependency. We do not need the KaTeX library at run-time, as Hugo compiles a static site. Additionally, we will redistribute the required KaTeX files as part of our site deployment. We can therefore install the KaTeX package as development dependency, listed under `devDependencies` in `package.json`.

{{< command >}}
npm install -D katex
{{< /command >}}

Switch back to VSCode and observe a new directory `node_modules` has been created in the repository root. The directory contains a folder `katex`, in which the subfolder `dist` contains our required files.

We will now create a `postinstall` script to copy the required files to our main repository (by default, `node_modules` are excluded from our git repository -  see `.gitignore` in the repository root). The below extract of `package.json` shows the placeholder script predefined by the module template.

```json
  [...]
  "scripts": {
    [...]
    "postinstall": "echo TODO: add postinstall instructions",
    [...]
  },
  [...]
```

Modify the `postinstall` script to copy the required files to a local `dist` directory:

```json
  [...]
  "scripts": {
    [...]
    "postinstall": "npm run -s copy:css && npm run -s copy:js && npm run -s copy:contrib && npm run -s copy:fonts",
    "copy:css": "cpy node_modules/katex/dist/katex.css dist --rename=katex.scss --flat",
    "copy:js": "cpy node_modules/katex/dist/katex.js dist --flat",
    "copy:contrib": "cpy \"node_modules/katex/dist/contrib/*.js\" \"!node_modules/katex/dist/contrib/*.min.js\"  dist/contrib --flat",
    "copy:fonts": "cpy node_modules/katex/dist/fonts/** dist/fonts --flat",
    [...]
  },
  [...]
```

The line postinstall is split into separate lines for each copy command to improve readability (you could also use {{< link npm_run_all >}}npm-run-all{{< /link >}} to simplify the command even further). Each copy statement uses {{< link npm_cpy >}}cpy{{< /link >}}, a cross-platform copy command. The `--flat` argument instructs `cpy` to flatten the files in the destination directory `dist`. The negation pattern starting with `!` tells `cpy-cli` to skip files that end with `.min.js`.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> We deliberately rename the `katex.css` file to a `katex.scss` file. The default `libsass` library, part of the [styles processing pipeline]({{% relref "styles" %}}), has difficulty processing the file otherwise.

Run `npm install` from the command line to invoke the `postinstall` script automatically. You should now have a folder `dist` in your repository root with the correct files. This npm script works well in a {{< abbr "CI/CD" >}} pipeline too, which prepares us for automation of the dependency upgrades later on in this guide.

{{< command >}}
npm install
(out)> @markdumay/mod-katex@0.0.0 postinstall
(out)> npm run -s copy:css && npm run -s copy:js && npm run -s copy:fonts
{{< /command >}}

We will now expose the various files copied to our local `dist` folder using [Hugo mounts]({{% relref "/docs/advanced-settings/overview#mounted-folders" %}}). The below configuration adheres to Hinode's [conventions for the naming and paths of the exposed files]({{% relref "module-development#conventions" %}}). Also observe that we explicitly add the existing folders `layouts`, `assets`, and `static` as mount point. This is to ensure other mounts are merged with any existing directories, instead of these mounts replacing the local folders. Add this configuration to the `config.toml` file in your repository root.

```toml
[module]
  [module.hugoVersion]
    extended = true
    min = "0.110.0"
    max = ""
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = "dist/katex.js"
    target = "assets/js/modules/katex/katex.js"
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = "dist/contrib/auto-render.js"
    target = "assets/js/modules/katex/katex-autorender.js"
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = "dist"
    target = "assets/scss"
    includeFiles = "katex.scss"
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = "dist/fonts"
    target = "static/fonts"
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = 'layouts'
    target = 'layouts'
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = 'assets'
    target = 'assets'
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = 'static'
    target = 'static'
```

As a final step we will include a basic script to initialize KaTeX when the page loads. An example script is available on the {{< link katex_load >}}KaTeX site{{< /link >}}. Create a file `assets/js/modules/katex/katex-autoload.js` and copy-paste the following script (copied from the KaTeX site for convenience). When done, push the latest changes to your remote git repository.

{{< file path="./_vendor/github.com/gethinode/mod-katex/assets/js/modules/katex/katex-autoload.js" full="false" >}}

## Step 4 - Testing the KaTeX markup

The module template provides a simple website for local testing. Open the file `exampleSite/hugo.toml` and update the configuration:

```toml
  # Build and serve using local mod-katex clone declared in the named Hugo workspace:
  workspace = "mod-katex.work"
  [[module.mounts]]
    source = "static"
    target = "static"
  [[module.imports]]
    path = "github.com/gethinode/mod-katex"
  [[module.imports.mounts]]
    source = "dist/katex.scss"
    target = "static/katex.css"
  [[module.imports.mounts]]
    source = "dist/fonts"
    target = "static/fonts"
  [[module.imports.mounts]]
    source = "dist/katex.js"
    target = "static/js/katex.js"
  [[module.imports.mounts]]
    source = "dist/contrib/auto-render.js"
    target = "static/js/auto-render.js"
  [[module.imports.mounts]]
    source = "assets/js/modules/katex/katex-autoload.js"
    target = "static/js/katex-autoload.js"
  [[module.imports.mounts]]
    source = 'layouts'
    target = 'layouts'
```

The configuration uses a [workspace](https://gohugo.io/hugo-modules/use-modules/#module-workspaces) to simplify local development. Rename the existing template file from `mod-template.work` to `mod-katex.work` for consistency. Ensure you reference the correct file in the above configuration.

Workspaces are of great help for local development and testing, as we would otherwise need to synchronize our repositories, submit a PR, and pull the latest version for each revision. The next line instructs our example site to use the `mod-katex` module (now sourced locally) and to adjust the mount points of the `.css` file and `.js` files. In this simple site for testing, we have no need for complex processing or bundling of assets, so we can use static imports instead.

We will now run the `mod:update` script to install the Hugo module(s) and to check for any updates. The `package.json` contains several scripts to help us:

```json
  [...]
  "scripts": {
    [...]
    "mod:update": "hugo mod get -u ./... && npm run -s mod:vendor && npm run -s mod:tidy",
    "mod:vendor": "rimraf _vendor && hugo mod vendor",
    "mod:tidy": "hugo mod tidy && hugo mod tidy -s exampleSite",
    [...]
  },
  [...]
```

- **`hugo mod get -u ./...`**

  Checks for any Hugo module updates recursively (including subfolders such as `exampleSite`)

- **`rimraf _vendor && hugo mod vendor`**

  Stores the module assets in a local vendor directory instead of the system cache. This is required if a module uses other modules itself (so-called transitive dependencies) and ensures our example site has access to them. Another reason to vendor your modules is to aid additional tools, such as the {{< link npm_whitelister >}}Purgecss Whitelister{{< /link >}}. External tools do not have access to Hugo mounts, however, might require access to module files. Vendoring your modules ensures all module data is available on a local, known path.
  
  The `_vendor` directory is deleted to prevent an error when the module does **not** have transitive dependencies. You could remove the vendor approach in this case, however, the current scripts defined by the module template cover both scenarios.

- **`hugo mod tidy && hugo mod tidy -s exampleSite`**

  Do some housekeeping of the `go.mod` and `go.sum` files in both the main repository and `exampleSite` folder. The command `hugo mod tidy` does not have a recursive option, so instead we invoke it the second time with the `-s` argument to point it at the correct subfolder.

Run the command `npm run mod:update` to update the modules recursively.

{{< command >}}
npm run mod:update
(out)
(out)> @markdumay/mod-katex@0.0.0 mod:update
(out)> hugo mod get -u ./... && npm run -s mod:vendor && npm run -s mod:tidy
(out)
(out)Update module in [...]/mod-katex/exampleSite
(out)Update module in [...]/mod-katex
{{< /command >}}

We will now adjust the file `baseof.html` in `exampleSite/layouts/_default` to include our static stylesheet and script on each page by default. Modify lines 7 and 13-15 as follows:

```html {linenos=table,hl_lines=[7,"13-15"]}
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, minimum-scale=1.0, initial-scale=1.0">
  <title>{{ with .Title }}{{ printf "%s | " . }}{{ end }}{{ site.Title }}</title>
  <link rel=stylesheet href="/katex.css">
</head>
<body>
  {{ block "main" . }}

  {{ end }}
<script src="/js/katex.js"></script>
<script src="/js/katex-autoload.js"></script>
<script src="/js/auto-render.js"></script>
</body>
</html>
```

Finally, add some examples to the file `exampleSite/content/_index.md`:

```md
This is an inline $-b \pm \sqrt{b^2 - 4ac} \over 2a$ formula

This is not an inline formula:

$$x = a_0 + \frac{1}{a_1 + \frac{1}{a_2 + \frac{1}{a_3 + a_4}}}$$  
$$\forall x \in X, \quad \exists y \leq \epsilon$$
```

Start a local server for the example site with the following command. Navigate to the address in your local browser and verify the page loads correctly.

{{< command >}}
npm run start
(out)
(out)> @markdumay/mod-katex@0.0.0 prestart
(out)> npm run clean && npm run mod:vendor
(out)
(out)> @markdumay/mod-katex@0.0.0 clean
(out)> rimraf exampleSite/public exampleSite/resources
(out)
(out)> @markdumay/mod-katex@0.0.0 mod:vendor
(out)> rimraf _vendor && hugo mod vendor
(out)
(out)> @markdumay/mod-katex@0.0.0 start
(out)> hugo server -s exampleSite --bind=0.0.0.0 --disableFastRender --printI18nWarnings
(out)
(out)Start building sites ...
(out)Environment: "development"
(out)Serving pages from memory
(out)Web Server is available at http://localhost:1313/ (bind address 0.0.0.0)
(out)Press Ctrl+C to stop
{{< /command >}}

## Conclusion

We have now created a new module that wraps the functionality of KaTeX. You can now easily include the module as core module or optional module in your Hinode site. Visit the [modules]({{% relref "docs/configuration/modules" %}}) section for more instructions. As a next step, you could consider to automate the dependency tracking, merging, and publication of new releases for your module. Your module already inherited several workflows from the module template. Visit the [module development]({{% relref "module-development" %}}) section for more information.
