content/en/docs/latest/about/credits.md, before:

---
title: Credits
description: Hinode is fully open source and uses several open-source frameworks and libraries.
date: 2023-08-14
aliases:
  - "/docs/about/credits/"
  - "/docs/about/"
  - "/about/"
layout: docs
---

## Team

Hinode is maintained by {{< link repository_owner >}}Mark Dumay{{< /link >}} and several contributors as an open-source repository on {{< link repository >}}GitHub{{< /link >}}. You are more than welcome to contribute. Get involved in the development by {{< link issue_tracker >}}opening an issue{{< /link >}} or submitting a pull request. Read our [contributing guidelines]({{% ref "contribute" %}}) for information on how we develop.

## Core components

Hinode is based on the following core components:

- {{< link hugo >}}Hugo{{< /link >}} is a static HTML and CSS website generator written in the {{< link golang >}}Go language{{< /link >}}. It is optimized for speed, ease of use, and configurability. Hugo takes a directory with {{< link markdown_guide >}}Markdown content{{< /link >}} and templates and renders them into a full HTML website.
- {{< link bootstrap >}}Bootstrap{{< /link >}} is a popular, open-source web development framework. Using a mobile-first approach, it provides several functions and components to simplify the creation of responsive websites.
- {{< link npm >}}npm{{< /link >}} is a software registry that enables the sharing and reuse of both open-source and private software packages. By taking advantage of its version management, software dependencies are easily tracked and updated.
- {{< link flexsearch >}}FlexSearch{{< /link >}} is a flexible search library to enable full text search across your site.
- {{< link fontawesome >}}Font Awesome{{< /link >}} is a popular icon library and toolkit, used on over 200 million sites. The free version provides access to more than 2,000 icons. The toolkit also provides various styling and animation options out of the box.

## Optional components

Hinode supports several opt-in components. In the default configuration, these components are added on a page-by-page basis:

- {{< link katex >}}KaTeX{{< /link >}} is a fast math typesetting library for the web.
- {{< link leaflet >}}Leaflet{{< /link >}} is an open-source JavaScript library for mobile-friendly interactive maps.
- {{< link lottie >}}Lottie{{< /link >}} is a library that parses Adobe After Effects animations exported as JSON with Bodymovin and renders them natively.
- {{< link mermaid >}}Mermaid{{< /link >}} is a diagramming and charting tool that renders Markdown-inspired text definitions to create and modify diagrams dynamically.
- {{< link simple_datatables >}}Simple Datatables{{< /link >}} is a lightweight, extendable, JavaScript HTML table library.

## Themes

Hinode is inspired by the following themes:

- {{< link blist >}}Blist{{< /link >}} is a clean and fast blog theme for your Hugo site using Tailwind CSS.
- {{< link doks >}}Doks{{< /link >}} is a Hugo theme for building secure, fast, and SEO-ready documentation websites, which you can easily update and customize.

Commit message:

Add bookshop to core components

content/en/docs/latest/about/credits.md, after:

---
title: Credits
description: Hinode is fully open source and uses several open-source frameworks and libraries.
date: 2023-08-14
aliases:
  - "/docs/about/credits/"
  - "/docs/about/"
  - "/about/"
layout: docs
---

## Team

Hinode is maintained by {{< link repository_owner >}}Mark Dumay{{< /link >}} and several contributors as an open-source repository on {{< link repository >}}GitHub{{< /link >}}. You are more than welcome to contribute. Get involved in the development by {{< link issue_tracker >}}opening an issue{{< /link >}} or submitting a pull request. Read our [contributing guidelines]({{% ref "contribute" %}}) for information on how we develop.

## Core components

Hinode is based on the following core components:

- {{< link hugo >}}Hugo{{< /link >}} is a static HTML and CSS website generator written in the {{< link golang >}}Go language{{< /link >}}. It is optimized for speed, ease of use, and configurability. Hugo takes a directory with {{< link markdown_guide >}}Markdown content{{< /link >}} and templates and renders them into a full HTML website.
- {{< link bootstrap >}}Bootstrap{{< /link >}} is a popular, open-source web development framework. Using a mobile-first approach, it provides several functions and components to simplify the creation of responsive websites.
- {{< link npm >}}npm{{< /link >}} is a software registry that enables the sharing and reuse of both open-source and private software packages. By taking advantage of its version management, software dependencies are easily tracked and updated.
- [Bookshop](https://github.com/CloudCannon/bookshop) is a component development workflow for static websites.
- {{< link flexsearch >}}FlexSearch{{< /link >}} is a flexible search library to enable full text search across your site.
- {{< link fontawesome >}}Font Awesome{{< /link >}} is a popular icon library and toolkit, used on over 200 million sites. The free version provides access to more than 2,000 icons. The toolkit also provides various styling and animation options out of the box.

## Optional components

Hinode supports several opt-in components. In the default configuration, these components are added on a page-by-page basis:

- {{< link katex >}}KaTeX{{< /link >}} is a fast math typesetting library for the web.
- {{< link leaflet >}}Leaflet{{< /link >}} is an open-source JavaScript library for mobile-friendly interactive maps.
- {{< link lottie >}}Lottie{{< /link >}} is a library that parses Adobe After Effects animations exported as JSON with Bodymovin and renders them natively.
- {{< link mermaid >}}Mermaid{{< /link >}} is a diagramming and charting tool that renders Markdown-inspired text definitions to create and modify diagrams dynamically.
- {{< link simple_datatables >}}Simple Datatables{{< /link >}} is a lightweight, extendable, JavaScript HTML table library.

## Themes

Hinode is inspired by the following themes:

- {{< link blist >}}Blist{{< /link >}} is a clean and fast blog theme for your Hugo site using Tailwind CSS.
- {{< link doks >}}Doks{{< /link >}} is a Hugo theme for building secure, fast, and SEO-ready documentation websites, which you can easily update and customize.
